There are a variety of precautionary
steps you wanna take when
using the GPIOs on the expansion header.
This is very important because
voltage can be sent in and
sent out from this
interface on your board.
Now, there is a set voltage
that this board can handle.
There's also, obviously the directions
that you get to choose on your GPIO,
so in most cases by default your GPIOs
are set as inputs because that's when
they're allowed to take voltages in.
Now, later on in course three we're
going to talk to you in a lot of detail
about these GPIOs, and the expansion
headers you can see on the screen there.
Like I said, in more detail, so
you'll have a lot better
idea as to how to use these.
And why it's important to pay
attention to the direction and
the values that set to them.
But when you're using this header,
you need to make sure that
you are only using the GPIOs
that you know how to use.
Yeah, there's lots of documentation,
we are going to talk about it.
But if you start messing with GPIO values,
you don't know what they're connected
to or how to manipulate them.
You could end up messing
something upon your board.
>> And I can speak for this from
experience, because I know when I first
got my Dragonboard, we were trying
to figure out all the GPIO pins.
I think there's about 400,
500 available via the virtual file system.
And I was just going one by one,
just putting in and
out, writing out, going high, going low.
And actually there are a few pins in
there that are either are not supposed
to be flipped or
actually is vital to the startup system.
So I know there's a pin in there where
whenever turn it into an output,
it always causes a restart of the system,
or it causes it to crash.
So make sure again as Robert said
look at the documentation only
use the pins that are listed there.
And if you are feeling daring and
you actually want to run the risk of
ruining your board, then you can go
ahead and play around with those GPIOs,
but we strongly discourage it.
>> It's also really important to notice
that, later on when we talk about this,
you're gonna see that on
the expansion header you have the DC
input accessible on one of the GPIOs.
And then right next to it, let's see 40,
39, so 38 and 37 you have access
to a DC input which could be anywhere
between 6.5 volts all the way to 18.
And then right next to it
you have a 5 volt output.
You also have grounds on all four
corners of the expansion there.
So if you accidentally touch pins to the
ground and to this 12.5 or 12 volt pin,
you just shorted your board and a variety
of things could happen if you do that.
>> Yeah
>> So yeah, be very careful.
Make sure you read
the documentation like Ara said and
watch our videos in the next course
to get more in tune with this.